原文
00:00 说话人1
OK, 开始，so, 我说汉语可以吗？还是还是说英语a little bit OK, so, 嗯，非常谢谢你来参加这次访谈，OK, so我想知道，嗯，这个学期你在用，嗯，Class PRO和class ready, 还有我们的汉语课的感受，The feelings about using those tools and also the feelings about the Chinese class for the whole semester.
00:35 说话人1
回答的问题没有对和错，就是，呃，只是，嗯，就是，Please share honestly about what you feel so theres no right wrong answers and both would work and what didn’t OK anything you want to say okay and all the, the answers everything you say will be.
00:57 说话人1
Anonym and only used for research, OK?嗯，So altogether there will be about nine or 10 questions, okay?So question numberone is about the overview reflection.So looking back at the whole semester, what comes to mind first when you think about the Chinese class.
01:20 说话人2
Um, actually it’s, it’s a great experience because we are used to mostly using the, the slides only and so then that you just be explaining.So the new experience that I got this time was previewing fast, which is good because you get to enter the the room, the the next class, knowing what you’re going to be told, which is easier for the teacher and also for the student to understand more and ask more questions.
01:47 说话人2
It’s a great approach.I like that.And also the other thing is what I liked is the is when we were approaching the end of the semester, you introduced this games where we had too match different words, different new new words from the previous classes.
02:04 说话人2
That was great because it made us study more at me.It made me study more ah, the previous classes when I get something wrong because I never focused that much about the the timer, you were giving us the timer, yeah, and there were no time limit which is great.
02:20 说话人2
So um, I had to assess maybe today I use 90 seconds to match 10 words.So then next day I try my level base that I use less than that, so it’s great.And also the other thing was the score, the, the, the in every question there was there were there, there was a list of people who, who is the first the rankings.
02:46 说话人2
So that was great because it’s it, it makes, it pushes people to study.Yeah, like I did this question wrong then let me try my best the next question yes.
02:56 说话人1
So that also yes also also mentioned that point that you need to come compete with each other in our country like every exam we do theyre always ranking.
03:09 说话人2
okay so we were like used to that yeah like motivate us to do more and more and more. Yeah if you see yourself somewhere at the bottom then you feel uncomfortable there’s something happened then like what makes me we have the same teacher, we have the same content, what like what’s the different?
03:30 说话人2
What what is difficult that I cannot make it better so I have to SOS it’s. Very nice.
03:38 说话人1
Okay, so it’s also new to me that to realize that this lake, um, how, how should I say it?This kind of competition can motivate you so much, KK.And question number two is about the memorable moment.So can you describe one specific moment in class this semester that stood up to you either positive or negative?
04:04 说话人2
Okay, speaking on the side, okay, the positive side, I liked the way we were interacting during the the breaks, okay? Yeah, like most of the breaks, you wanted to know more about us, we wanted to know more about the Chinese people.
04:21 说话人2
So then we were using, I tried my level base to use Chinese to make, to make good practice of it.But one of the bad side of it, we, I think we should try a level best to have some maybe, um, they may invite Chinese people, Chinese students to our class and then just for maybe one, one lesson, one lesson per week, we get to talk to them, we may have a discussion about something, someone goes in front and explains about something, of course does that people laugh when you get something wrong,
05:00 说话人2
but it improves it, it really helps, it helps so we can get to share and improve our Chinese speaking because.I’ll give an example when I go to play basketball, I have a friend who plays basketball, but most of the times he he wants to know English.
05:18 说话人2
And so then when I try to speak, Chinese answers me English, okay? Yeah, so it’s like theres that happening, so, okay.Its like we should get sometime uh.We speak to them in, in Chinese and then they explain to us or sometimes you can help us for the case, for the, for those, for those Chinese students who don’t have the.
05:46 说话人2
You cannot speak well English.So I think you should have such kind of programs and also last semester, I mean the first semester we had a Chinese competition that also helped me like the two weeks I if I’m not mistaken, not the three weeks like I improved my Chinese to an extent that I never I never expected.
06:07 说话人2
Especially my my speaking my my my my spoken Chinese like most of the times I I wouldn’t care so much about the of course I cared about the tones, but not as, as the, as much as I put, I had put the effort for the competition so that those efforts made me focus more on the terms because I, I’ have noticed that most of the students, okay, even the my competitors who are the Russian students also were not.
06:37 说话人2
Focusing much on the, on the tones like most of the time they just of course they know Chinese but.Chinese tos you fail to concentrate on the tones, you mean something different, you make people confused, so I think competitions also they should.
06:55 说话人2
OK.
06:59 说话人1
that feel happy to get the information about the competition, right?Yes, we have some competitions in in in our campus like organized by us, but also we have other competitions organized by other like the governments were like the other NGO o for example, something like that.
07:23 说话人1
So if the teacher introduce you to participate to those competitions, you’re happy to accept that, right?Okay, I say that actually there there are have there have some competitions so maybe later I can introduce more to you, maybe the other teacher I can share the.
07:54 说话人2
I forgot that, okay? So I know in comprehensive Chinese we tend to focus on both spoken and also.Written books?Yes, so now I think you should also focus on.The reading part, I don’t know, so far I have no suggestion on how to to improve our listening, but I think that’s your homeworks, your homework because like of course we we are trying to do the workbook but I think there’s something were missing’re, still missing like we I don’t improve, okay?
08:31 说话人2
It so like I mean like the rate of improving from one SE step to the other, it’s it’s good but not that good.Okay?So like for example, when I talk to somebody face to face, I might understand him, but not as much as I when I listen, for example, when I sit down in class, I don’t know if it’s the tempo we are using, like the speed, the speed that you’re using in class, the speed, the listening, the, the, the.
09:00 说话人2
The one who is speaking and were listening, I don’t know if it’s the speed.Which it might contribute at some point because I’ve ever told you that yes the speed, yeah the speed now I don’t know how to structure this I think should find a way to improve the listening part part.
09:23 说话人1
so is the part therusting part you like when you do the listening comprehension practice especially you know for the for the case of h SK three.
09:37 说话人2
there was this part after the fast 1010 sentences the.图片图片图片图片和和句子对。
09:52 说话人1
二十，二十一到二十，嗯。
10:02 说话人2
Have to answer, so I think.That part, okay for the past two exams that we did before the final I got, I got from a lot of questions.
10:21 说话人1
对，我觉得嗯，是你们听得少少，对，听的比较少，对，That’s why you feel like嗯，In in so like so short a time cannotsp, 嗯，你看我们在上课的时候。可能我说的是两个句子，3个句子啊，然后听可可是在呃考试的时候，Listening comprehension它是很多句子，而且fill alot information对，所以你会不知道我该怎么做，嗯对，所以我觉得解决的办法就是要多听，嗯，以前我们在就是给学生课的时候我们就有。
11:22 说话人1
听力课、口语课，然后综合课，还有阅读课。对，综合，综合就是，嗯，现在我们的课还有，呃，speaking.Listening, reading, 对，现在，嗯，因为你们不是学汉语言的，所以，not, not in the Chinese major, 对，所以我们的课就只有综合课和口语课，对，就没有听力课和阅读课。嗯，对你们来说，如果有听力课和阅读课会更好。
12:02 说话人1
会更好，但是现在没有，所以你们在下课的时候。要多练习，嗯，所以可能在我给你们做class ready的这个工具的时候，to这个工具的时候可以多做一些listening的练习。嗯，对，在上课以前就做一些listening的准备。嗯，对。
12:26 说话人2
And about it and also another thing is about.When we, when we give, when we give the Chinese, the Chinese preview materials, sometimes I was asking you like to give me more time, give me, okay, this is on my side, okay?
12:46 说话人2
II.You once asked me about.How DOI study my Chinese?How how DOI practice my Chinese?One of the way I told you that I I take just maybe 20 minutes, yeah, so I I 20 minutes, maybe right now, maybe 20 minutes, maybe late.
13:07 说话人2
So then.On my side, I wouldn’t prefer maybe next semester would have preview materials like all of them for the whole lesson at once, like so today, go check the preview materials about less on 10 and then.
13:24 说话人2
The whole like the whole day until tomorrow we have to preview everything on my side. I don’t think if it’s effective, I don’t think it’s effective, I think we should try to do something like.We have three days you’re teaching, okay?
13:41 说话人2
I think you should give us like.Maybe for tomorrow.Know only about the words.So it’s only the words, okay?And then tomorrow we practice about the words and so go and do about the grammar, okay? And so we just focus on the grammar while I already know the the the words, okay?
14:05 说话人2
And so for the last day we have the listening part, so go, go and focus about the listening part and for every and for for every like after we complete maybe the.The grammar part instead of having the whole day like.
14:22 说话人2
Instead of having the wholework of doing the whole exercise about the workbook for the specific chapter after I finished the grammar, but you select the questions and go do, go and do them and then.Tomorrow you ask?
14:38 说话人2
Maybe.How would is was there any problem then we do it?I think it will be much effective than doing all of it all at once.I think that I think that would be be great.I I was doing that when I was in high school.
14:54 说话人2
It was very effective rather than just focusing on like.The whole thing.And then listen tomorrow like you’ll have a class tomorrow you will repeat the same thing.Of course you want to be remembering everything because you are studying all by yourself.
15:12 说话人2
There’s some there will be a lot of questions.Okay, you’d be asking yourself about the the preview materials so I think if you focus on.呃。Something smaller, we’ll have more questions about that thing and then to be like we get to know more about.
15:31 说话人1
yeah, you need.
15:50 说话人2
I’m trying to think you have time to think about it.
16:00 说话人2
Yeah and also we practice more about our I don’t know if that will affect I came for MHM I don’t know okay SE.
16:11 说话人1
only develop嗯becauses for mes a test, 嗯whether it work or not but after this project I think later I will develop the whole leg apart from level one to five, I will add more like questions and also up upgrade the update的the class ready part you so welcome I, I need I need someone that professional about the code you know.
17:00 说话人2
TRY, I’ll try you, of course, I haven’t studied that much about the programming part because my major does not focus on developing system, but rather doing the back end process like whatever is happening.
17:13 说话人2
The logic part of the system that that is what I’m studying.So like we, we were not that much into maybe the front and how you could you could see something yeah, so you focus much on the back end.
17:27 说话人1
Yeah, that will be so good.You know, now I feel some, I have some problems because I was banned for the cloud account so I cannot use it right now. So I I’m figuring out to use other AI tools to instead working yes, right now I IM not sure.
17:56 说话人1
嗯，I’m not sure maybe I I gmail but maybe I used the lake, the computer, also the phone, I I changed them.嗯。
18:14 说话人2
I in and log out, was that thing happening?No, like you enter, you enter in the APP?Yeah, and then it tells you maybe refresh and then it locks you out?No, and then you log in.
18:35 说话人1
I just there was one day last week I was involveded so I I know I’m trying to like to use the code, do you knowd?
18:48 说话人2
Yeah.
18:48 说话人1
I used codes.To connect API from V4, 对，I’m trying TOTO use this way.对，IM trying.我可以给你看看，我现在刚才他还帮我在在做，但是我现在还没有。他早上帮我。
19:19 说话人1
这个。早上的这个。做了一下。我现在在重新的做这个。哦，现在不能看了。Okm嗯，他在开始，Its a start start about doing ready.嗯，This time I want to make it better because now we have new materials about the hsk three, okay, so I need to updates.嗯，对。
20:03 说话人2
When after you done with making the thing you should, you should also think about having an application yes because most of the times we just enter the class and then we scan the code, so I think the application should have.
20:21 说话人2
The cure code like like, like c, have you ever used CC? Yes, something like that.So you enter the glass when you scan the cure code, then you’d be able to access the thing that you’ have allowed that cure code to for that specific lesson.
20:38 说话人2
So if it is h3, then you’ be able to access only that.So I think we should have that one and then people just allow them in the we have them in their in their forms. Yes.
20:50 说话人1
and then.
20:52 说话人2
They.Also, the system should have this way, uh.If we could be getting the reports like for example.Most of the times you, you give me the comment, maybe I made this III composed the sentence and then I got it wrong so I just have to write it.
21:10 说话人2
So instead of writing maybe the system could be able to generate reports of the of dayss lesson of the dayss week and maybe of today month.So then I’ll just download automatic okay from this to you and teachers.
21:27 说话人2
So just have the report, maybe my weekly ranking.My monthly ranking yes, so I just know my progress right from there without having to ask you frequently, like how is my progress is.
21:45 说话人1
OK, think about it when I have the demo, I can share it with you. OK, 嗯，很好，你有很多想法非常好，我非常希望有，嗯，Different perspective.对，Especially teachers help to improve.Yes, the to because I would liketo make it more useful that like the other class can also use them, okay.
22:22 说话人1
好，我想想啊，还有什么问题啊？Yes, you told me how you use the class ready.嗯，And also.Oh, so do you feel different about your own ability to learn Chinese now compared to the start of the semester?That is about the self confidence change, is there any?
22:58 说话人1
Do you feel different about your own ability to learn Chinese now compared with compare to the start of的seme？
23:07 说话人2
Like using Chinese to speak.
23:13 说话人2
Generally yes, generally yes, but to be specific.The application has made us, has made it easier for the teacher and of the student to make sentences like to analyze the ability of every student.That is a great achievement, but I think that teacher should also not forget to physically ask.
23:38 说话人2
Converse with students because I would say I’ve ever observed, I’ve ever observed like a 60% of the class, we just, we just with our phones and typing, answering, answering questions, the only time that you get to.
23:57 说话人2
Listen is maybe during breaks and also if somebody has something wrong, I think we should also like that also not forget to converss with students using Chinese, okay? Like using the application should not.
24:13 说话人2
Make us forget that we still have to speak whatever we’re learning.
24:17 说话人1
Okay.
24:19 说话人2
so the application should not take that over, the application should play its part to simplify the learning process and the speaking.Its so that together we make progress.
24:35 说话人1
Okay?So do you think that you need more time to speak.In class.
24:43 说话人2
From what I I’ve observed, I think I learn more while I’m in class because I I try to speak a lott when I’m in class.
24:51 说话人1
you are the one, 嗯，I think few students like, 嗯。Feel happy, 嗯，willing, willing to speak in class, but嗯，Most of the students like not so willing to speak so much in class. That’s why you know that at the start of the semester I had an indiction in in interaction, not a game, but a practice to invite everyone to be in front of the class TOTO describe the words you say and then the other students, guys, so in that part, what I thought I expect them tobe like, oh,
25:40 说话人1
you prepare about like when you preview all the vocabulary, like you prepare to describe, 嗯，At least one sentence or two sentences like how you use them or how described the words and then you show them in the front.
26:01 说话人1
But in reality.
26:07 说话人1
我老师，我，Some people feel shy or not well prepared for describing the words and sometimes it will take a longtime to think about it, and the other students will feel like a little bit boring yeah, so.From that point on, I will change more like the practice as you said just now tobe like, 呃，In text, 对，因为嗯，我我其实想给你们很多机会可以说，但是我觉得很多人可能没准备好。
26:56 说话人1
嗯，然后第二个是因为很多人可能觉得到前面说有一点儿担心说错了，或者是担心说的不好啊，别的人会觉得他，嗯对，嗯，所以后来我觉得啊，可能我要换一个方式和你们一起互动，对其实我也更希望你们可以在课上多说汉语。但我觉得这个学期你做的很好，就是如果有机会说的时候，你说的都是汉语，嗯，这是很好的。我也希望其他的同。同学像你一样，但是可能其他的同学没有那么啊，和你一样，觉得我要多说汉语，我要表达自己themselves，所以有更多的时间就是像你感觉到的一样，我们在这样对，因为我觉得这种方式，他们觉得嗯，到前面来就是嗯。
28:00 说话人1
嗯，About it.对，所以我我我也希望你们就是通过，嗯，Using ready, you can prepare for the whole class welland we can communicate well, interact, 对，这个也是我我希望的，对。
28:23 说话人2
About that one about that one, it’s it’s it’s good the way you said that you are assessing every every game you are giving us and then you have to change depending on the, on the progress of the students, how they react.
28:36 说话人2
That was great I think also the the games shouldn nott be fixed like you should have this big, this big list of games that on Monday it’s different from Tuesday and on Tuesday it’s different from Wednesday.
28:50 说话人2
So that is not fixed to a students that.
29:02 说话人1
对，因为开始我觉得你们feel very fresh everything啊，然后做的也很好，然后到到到你们就知道哦，每天我们是一样的，如routine，你们就会觉得哦，这个一样，所以后来又有了1的，你看就是有这个我们了个。
29:33 说话人2
yes, so like they shouldn’t be predictable.What we did yesterday should be different from tomorrow and it should be even much more like, more interesting than, than the previous one, I think that way to keep the the students active and also to add up on that one for the case of us speaking.
29:53 说话人2
I should, I think we should have like a, like a program, maybe inside class, so maybe tomorrow everyone has to introduce himself and talk about anything or maybe talk about.
30:08 说话人2
Maybe.How his summer went or how how summer went, like the the the vacation how the summer vacation went for his side to side I think that that also try to make us improve you can.For the beginning, at the beginning, so that people may get familiar on with what you’re trying to, to, to impact on them, you can just give them.
30:35 说话人2
Uh.The title, okay, like the title of what you were supposed to talk about tomorrow and so then he will.
30:44 说话人1
he or she will get time to to practice that will be good to be like appear in the ready before the class.When do the class ready you will get的topic we going to.
31:01 说话人2
Okay, yes, so then tomorrow morning, tomorrow morning before anything else, before you make confused, they know that they still have their homework that is talking about something you have time to prepare what is going to have?
31:16 说话人2
Yes, so you can just maybe give them.Maybe we just have one minute or maybe have two minutes to talk about this.
31:22 说话人1
okay?
31:23 说话人2
You shouldn’t be frustrated like you shouldn’t be just just take it easy, you give them those type of encouraging words so that they.They they see it as an impactful means to improve their, okay, to improve their changes.
31:39 说话人2
So there’s that I think that one will help me, okay?I’t on my side, I think it will it will help me.
31:50 说话人1
okay?
31:51 说话人2
Okay?I try to IIII like to learn languages, to learn languages, especially Chinese when people say that it’s harder, I just I always look on the positive side of everything that’s good that.If something is hard, there’s always a positive side where you can lean on and improve.
32:12 说话人2
And prove them wrong.
32:14 说话人1
okay?
32:14 说话人2
So I try to put it on that perspective, okay?So I think you should have that kind of practice.Improve maybe later on we may have something like impmptu questions like, hey, 童啊，这周末你做什么，嗯哼，So something like that.
32:36 说话人2
Because I like most of most of us when you.
32:44 说话人2
睡觉。
32:45 说话人1
睡觉，睡觉，睡觉。
32:50 说话人2
There if you ask us questions we just give you just give them out.睡觉，睡觉，睡觉，做饭做，Fine but we have a lot of words. We have discussed almost 300 if not 400 words right now so we still have to put them into practice.
33:04 说话人2
Okay?Yeah and.Also, for the case of previewing the previous content, you should not only.Focus on the present content should also lose some preview on the previous content.Why is that? Because.We have, we have a lot of things we forget, we’re human beings.
33:24 说话人2
So I think and it should be also interactive, it should also be fun to make it to make people automatically willing, okay, without having to express what you’re trying to do to them.Yeah, so it should be more fun and they should like from right away, they should just understand that it’s, it’s impact, it’s impactful to their studies.
33:48 说话人2
Okay?
33:51 说话人1
Okay.
33:53 说话人2
Thank you so much suggestion yeah and also for the the of reviewing the previous content it should be in a way that you assess may be.Maybe be one INS and so you know the weakness of students and what to improve.
34:17 说话人2
So depending on the progress, you may try to.To filter out the weakness part in every five lesson consecutive and return them back in a different way, okay? Yes, so.And also says if there’s still a weakness, you do what you, you know what to do, you a teacher, so you, you know what to do and so we keep on improving, improving at the end of the day and until we reached four, we’re pretty much confident with the exam, yeah.
34:50 说话人1
Perfect.I I how well done the two will be in the future.
34:58 说话人2
Actually I was trying to think about it. I had a lot of ideas but I I like most of time when I when I have those ideas, I I like I be on the way so I I fail to have something to write.
35:12 说话人1
Okay, okay.
35:13 说话人2
at least some you cannot write them, at least you explain to someone to understand what you’re trying to.
35:18 说话人1
Okay, sorry for that. I’m going to stop a little bit.